Why don’t animal cells have lysosomes?
They do extracellular digestion
What are the advantages of an alimentary canal over a gastrovascular cavity?
Specialized sections of tube can do digestion in sequence
Where does chemical digestion occur?
The intestine
___ contains small bits of gravel and sand.
gizzard
What is the purpose of the dorsal fold, villi, and microvilli?
To increase surface area for digestion
What happens in the crop?
Food storage
What is the purpose of the gallbladder?
To store products from the liver before being released into the intestine
What process enables us to digest while lying down?
peristalsis
What is the purpose of sphincters?
To regulate the passage of food in and out of the digestive organ.
What is the purpose of saliva?
Contains amylase which digests starch
Explain how the structure of the esophagus fits its function.
Tissue can stretch and contract to accommodate any size bolus and propel it through the esophagus.(peristalsis)
Which organ allows us to not have to eat constantly?
The stomach.
What digestive fluid is secreted in the stomach. What does it contain? Is it an acid or a base?
Gastric juice; contains mucus, enzymes, and acid; it is acidic.
Why is the stomach acidic?
Acids break down cells, and kill bacteria and microbes?
Why is mucus secreted in the stomach?
Protects, lubricates stomach lining.
How do HCL, pepsin, and pepsinogen interact?
HCL turns pepsinogen to pepsin, and pepsin then activates more pepsinogen.
How are the nervous and endocrine systems involved in the digestive system?
After sensing food, the systems send a signal to the brain to start producing saliva, gastric juice, and other digestive fluids. If the concentrations of these fluids is too high, they might stop production.
What is chyme
An acidic, nutrient rich mixture; food after going through the stomach.
What substance would you add to pepsinogen to accelerate its digestion of a protein?
HCL(hydrochloric acid)
What causes acid-reflux/heartburn?
When chyme flows back up the esophagus from the stomach, and the acid burns the esophagus.
What is the cause of gastric ulcers?
H. Pylori is a bacteria that can withstand the acidity of the stomach, and it destroys the stomach lining.
What happens to food in the small intestine?
Most is chemically digested and enters the bloodstream through the villi. Some is egested; it goes through the rectum and anus
What is the function of the pancreas?
It releases pancreatic juice; a mixture of digestive enzymes and bicarbonate; the bicarbonate neutralizes the acidic chyme coming from the stomach.
What is the function of bile salts?
They emulsion fats to be more easily digested by enzymes. This is because it increases the surface area of the fats, making it more quickly digestible by lipase.
How do the stomach and small intestine work together to digest food?
Enzymes and acids secreted by the stomach begin digestion, and different enzymes and bases in the intestine complete it.(polymers>>smaller polymers>>monomers)
How is the small intestine divided/sectioned?
The first 25 cm is the duodenum, and here digestive enzymes and other products from the liver and pancreas mix and digest the chyme from the stomach. In the rest of the small intestine, these nutrients are absorbed.
How are nutrients transported from the small intestine into the bloodstream?
By diffusion and active transport(depends on concentration gradient)
What is the function of the lymph vessel?
To transport fats.
What does the hepatic portal vein do?
It connects the smaller veins coming from the intestine and goes into the liver.
What are some of the functions of the liver?
Converting glucose>>glycogen, synthesizes plasma proteins, detoxifies substances
What is the main function of the large intestine?
Water absorption
Describe the relationship between the large intestine and bacteria such as E. coli.
It is mutualistic: The intestine provides a home and nutrients for the bacteria, which in turn provide vitamin B and K.
Describe how diarrhea or constipation happen.
The colon absorbs too much or too little water.






